Feature/tributech v4 rewrite (#105)
tributech-solutions/tributech-dsk-docs: versioned_docs/version-4.0.0/tributech_node/agent/agent_management.mdx

---

> title: Access Control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Agent Management
```

sidebar_position: 1
---

> In this section we show the available management function, provided by a Tributech Node UI, to manage [Tributech Agents](../../tributech_agent/overview.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we show the available management functions, provided by the Tributech Node UI, to manage [Tributech Agents](../../tributech_agent/overview.md).
```

All of this examples assume that the [Tributech Node](../overview.md) is available and a [Tribtech Agent](../../tributech_agent/setup.mdx) has established a connection to it.

:arrow_right: All those operations can also be executed via the [Tributech Node REST API](../api_category/API_usage.md)

![Enrollment Overview](../img/DemeterArchitectureOverviewAgentManagement.png)

The first time a [Tributech Agent](../../tributech_agent/overview.md) connects to a [Tributech Node](../overview.md)
is during the `enrollment process` and the Tributech Agent will be listed with the state `Pending` in the `enrollment section`.
In this state the User has two Quick Actions available in the Tributech UI:

- ***Activate*** - Permit an Agent to connect to the Tributech Node and communicate with it
- ***Deny*** - The agent is not allowed to communicate further with the Tributech Node

![Enrollment Overview](../img/node-agent-management-overview.png)

> For already activated [Tributech Agents](../../tributech_agent/overview.md) we provide the following operations, via the `Actions` context menu:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an already activated [Tributech Agents](../../tributech_agent/overview.md) we provide the following operations, via the `Actions` context menu:
```

- ***Block*** - No further communication with the Tributech Node is allowed for this Tributech Agent
- ***Unblock*** - A blocked Tributech Agent is allowed to restart the enrollment process
- ***Delete*** - Delete all associated data with a Tributech Agent

If your Tributech Agent is not listed in the `enrollment section` then please revisit the [QuickStart](../../tributech_agent/quickstart.mdx)
or [Agent Setup](../../tributech_agent/setup.mdx).

In the following section we will give a short overview how the states relate to a Tributech Agent and where the states can be changed.

## New Agents

> After starting a Tributech Agent (see [QuickStart](../../tributech_agent/quickstart.mdx)/[Setup](../../tributech_agent/setup.mdx)) the communication to the Tributech Node is per default not allowed. Only after activating an Tributech Agent the full communication is permitted. We can see in the ***Enrollment*** Overview all Agents that requires activation with the State ***Pending***. If we ***Deny*** the request then the agent cannot be configured and will not be able send, receive any data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After starting a Tributech Agent (see [QuickStart](../../tributech_agent/quickstart.mdx)/[Setup](../../tributech_agent/setup.mdx)) the communication to the Tributech Node is per default not allowed. Only after activating a Tributech Agent the full communication is permitted. In the ***Enrollment*** Overview we can see all Agents that requires activation with the State ***Pending***. If we ***Deny*** the request then the agent cannot be configured and will not be able send, receive any data. 
```

### Activate Agent
When we decide to activate an Tributech Agent it will be displayed with status ***online***/***offline*** depending on
the network connection between the Tributech Node and Tributech Agent. 

![Tributech UI Agent Activation](../img/node-agent-management-agent-activation.png)

Once a Tributech Agents is in the state ***online*** 
it can be configured in the ***Agents*** Overview by selecting the entry or via the action context menu ([Agent Configuration](./agent_configuration.mdx)).

![Tributech UI Agent Overview](../img/node-agent-management-agent-overview.png)

### Denied Agent

> If we have decided to deny an Tributech Agent enrollment it will be displayed with status ***denied***.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we have decided to deny a Tributech Agent enrollment it will be displayed with status ***denied***.
```

Tributech Agents with the state ***denied*** can only be deleted via the action menu.

![Enrollment Delete Denied Agent](../img/node-agent-management-delete-denied-agent.png)

It is important to note that a denied Tributech Agent will start an new enrollment process after beeing deleted.
The communication is no longer blocked after the deletion and its possible to ***Activate*** or ***Deny*** this agent again.

## Activated Agents

### Blocking Agents

> After granting an Tributech Agent access to a Tributech Node we can revoke this access of an active Tributech Agent at any time by ***blocking*** further communication. This option is available in the Agents Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After granting a Tributech Agent access to a Tributech Node we can revoke this access of an active Tributech Agent at any time by ***blocking*** further communication. This option is available in the Agents Overview
```

By blocking an Tributech Agent we ensure that no new data can be send. The existing data will still be accessable for inspection in the *Agent Overview* (see [Delete an Agent](#deleting-an-agent) to remove current data). 
Another word for blocking would be archiving an agent, as all streamed data is still stored on the Tributech node but the agent is decommissioned.
The agent can be unblocked at any time, creating a fully functional agent whose data is still stored. 

### Unblocking Agents
Unblocking is only available for blocked Tributech Agents and restores an Tributech Agent to an `activated` state. 
The option can be also found in the action menu similar to the `Block` action.

![Unblock a Tribtuech Agent via UI](../img/node-agent-management-unblock-sample.png)

After unblocking an Tributech Agent overview shows the current state as ***Await Request*** this means the Tributech Agent has not requested a new connection. 

![Unblock Wait a Tribtuech Agent via UI](../img/node-agent-management-unblock-sample-await.png)

After waiting some time or restarting the Agent it will switch into status ***online***/***offline*** again.

> After comming online again it can communicate and be managed the same way as any other `activated` Tributech Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once it is back online, it can communicate and be managed in the same way as any other `activated` Tributech Agent.
```
